:orphan:
:date: 2017-01-18
:tags: math, unicode, python, coding
:summary: Turning Unicode into a number system

########################################
base 121003: Unicode as a Numeral system
########################################

.. post-info-start

.. danger:: :bdg-danger:`DRAFT POST`

    :material-regular:`calendar_month` 2017-01-18


.. post-info-end

I've had an idea for a while that `Unicode <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unicode>`__ could as a numeral system, or more specifically using as much of the characters in the standard as possible to represent numbers in a base of the size of that set of characters.
This is by no means usable in real life, not only because of the size (121,003 was the final number of "digits" I came up with), but also because Unicode has a lot of `characters that either look similar or are the same <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Duplicate_characters_in_Unicode>`__.

When making the converter, the real problem was determining the set of the characters to use, because Unicode is complicated.
To convert to my base Unicode, I needed a list that a program could use.
My first stop was the `Unicode Character Database <http://www.unicode.org/ucd/>`__ where I got a XML version of the database.
After wrangling with `python's XML module <https://docs.python.org/3/library/xml.html>`__ for the first time, I finally got it to get the items after I realized I needed to `include the xml namespace for the ucd <https://github.com/iguessthislldo/base_unicode/commit/372eff93006506acf9b026ebd0fa0762c7aa9424#diff-b5f3d03f1da0db1eb4bf220dfa348759R57>`__.

My initial criteria was to ignore anything that wasn't printable (not control characters like newline (``'\n'`` 0x000A) or null (``'\0'`` 0x0000)).
This was expanded to any character that doesn't have a `name <http://www.unicode.org/reports/tr44/#Property_Invariants>`__.

..
    There was a table for numbers in the HTML version, this was the only entry.
    <td><a href="https://www.census.gov/popclock/">Estimated population of the US as of writing</a></td>
    <td>324,426,748</td>
    <td>శ䪹</td>
    <td>MAKE IMAGES</td>
